feat: route level config (#8740)
sveltejs/kit: documentation/docs/25-build-and-deploy/90-adapter-vercel.md

			memory: 1024,
			maxDuration: undefined, // 5s for Hobby plans, 15s for Pro, 30s for Enterprise
			split: false,
			external: []
		})
	}
};
```

## Deployment configuration

To control how your routes are deployed to Vercel as functions, you can specify deployment configuration, either through the `defaultConfig` option shown above or with [`export const config`](/docs/page-options#config) inside `+server.js`, `+page(.server).js` and `+layout(.server).js` files.

For example you could deploy some parts of your app as [Edge Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/edge-functions)...

```js
/// file: about/+page.js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/adapter-vercel').Config} */
export const config = {
	runtime: 'edge'
};
```

...and others as [Serverless Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions) (note that by specifying `config` inside a layout, it applies to all child pages):

```js
/// file: admin/+layout.js
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/adapter-vercel').Config} */
export const config = {
	runtime: 'nodejs18.x'
};
```

The following options apply to all functions:

- `runtime`: `'edge'`, `'nodejs16.x'` or `'nodejs18.x'` (the default)

> - `regions`: an array of [edge network regions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/edge-network/regions) (defaulting to `["iad1"]` for serverless functions) or `'all'` if `runtime` is `edge` (its default)

Reviewer: Should it explicitly say that multiple regions for serverless is an enterprise-only feature to avoid confusion?

Reviewer 2: yes!

- `split`: if `true`, causes a route to be deployed as an individual function. If `split` is set to `true` at the adapter level, all routes will be deployed as individual functions

Additionally, the following options apply to edge functions:
- `envVarsInUse`: an array of environment variables that should be accessible inside the edge function
- `external`: an array of dependencies that esbuild should treat as external when bundling functions. This should only be used to exclude optional dependencies that will not run outside Node

And the following option apply to serverless functions:

> - `memory`: the amount of memory available to the function. Defaults to `1024` Mb, and can be [increased](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/limits/overview#serverless-function-memory) up to `3008` on Pro or Enterprise accounts

Reviewer: Or decreased to 128 MB?

Reviewer 2: fixed, thank you

> - `maxDuration`: maximum execution duration of the function. Defaults to `5` seconds for Hobby accounts, `15` for Pro and `30` for Enterprise

Reviewer: This seems to come from the Vercel V1 API docs which are outdated, see https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/limits/overview for serverless timeout duration

Reviewer 2: good catch, thank you!

};
```

## Config options

> Besides the config options shown above, the Vercel adapter also supports [route level config](/docs/page-options#config) through `export let config`. You can deploy parts of your app to the edge and others to serverless functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Besides the config options shown above, the Vercel adapter also supports [route level config](/docs/page-options#config) through `export const config`. You can deploy parts of your app to the edge and others to serverless functions, and control which region each route is deployed to.
```

Reviewer 2: ah i guess this is duplicative with the 'besides that' section

The following options apply to all functions:

- `runtime`: `'edge'`, `'nodejs16.x'` or `'nodejs18.x'` (the default)

> - `regions`: an array of [edge network regions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/edge-network/regions) (defaulting to `["iad1"]` for serverless functions) or `'all'` if `runtime` is `edge` (its default)

Reviewer 2: we should check, but I _think_ you can have `all` even with lambda deployments

Author: I infered this from reading https://vercel.com/docs/build-output-api/v3#vercel-primitives/serverless-functions/configuration where it's typed as `string[]` only
